README.md, before:

# ATCSIndProj
Final project for Advanced Topics in Computer Sciences

Project description: I'm interested in and want to study biology/genetics in college, so for this 
project, I explored ways to use Python to solve biological problems (field of bioinformatics).

-------------
DNA is made up of 4 bases: A, T, C, and G.
The first program I developed simply calculates the GC content of a given DNA sequence. Knowing the
GC content of a sequence is incredibly useful since it can reveal a lot of information from DNA
stability to species to protein expression.

I developed some very simple code to make gc_content.py, included in the zip file. 

-------------
The GC content program was not difficult at all, so I also learned about the Boyer-Moore algorithm. It is a 
searching algorithm that finds a small pattern in a larger text. Boyer-Moore takes information from 
character comparisons to skip unnecessary characters that will not match through two main methods: the bad 
character rule and the good suffix rule. 

Bad character rule: skips alignments until a mismatched character turns into a match or the pattern moves
all the way over the mismatch. 
* Make mismatches matches

Good suffix rule: given a small section of a matching chunk, skips until there are no mismatches between
the pattern and text or when the pattern moves all the way over the small section.
* Keeps matches

In Boyer-Moore, alignments go from left to right while character comparisons go from right to left.

Sources:

Commit message:

Updated README and added graphical representations

README.md, after:

# ATCSIndProj
Final project for Advanced Topics in Computer Sciences

Project description: I'm interested in and want to study biology/genetics in college, so for this 
project, I explored ways to use Python to solve biological problems (field of bioinformatics).

-------------
DNA is made up of 4 bases: A, T, C, and G.
The first program I developed simply calculates the GC content of a given DNA sequence. Knowing the
GC content of a sequence is incredibly useful since it can reveal a lot of information from DNA
stability to species to protein expression.

I developed some very simple code to make gc_content.py, included in the zip file. 

-------------
The GC content program was not difficult at all, so I also learned about the Boyer-Moore algorithm. It is 
a searching algorithm that finds a small pattern in a larger text. Boyer-Moore takes information from 
character comparisons to skip unnecessary characters that will not match through two main methods: the 
bad character rule and the good suffix rule. 

Bad character rule: skips alignments until a mismatched character turns into a match or the pattern 
moves all the way over the mismatch. 
* Make mismatches matches

Good suffix rule: given a small section of a matching chunk, skips until there are no mismatches between
the pattern and text or when the pattern moves all the way over the small section.
* Keeps matches

In Boyer-Moore, alignments go from left to right while character comparisons go from right to left.

-------------
It proved pretty difficult, so (unfortunately) I could not implement the two main methods or the complete 
algorithm since it required multiple complex steps to determine the amount to skip (making bad char and good
suffix tables). Since I couldn't accomplish that, I made some graphical representations, which helped me 
understand the algorithm better. In the future/if I had more time, I would be interested in learning 
attempting an actual implementation!

-------------
Sources:
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/boyer-moore-algorithm-for-pattern-searching/ 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Xyhb72LCX4
